CONTRIBUTING: document the directory structure (#12314)
tldr-pages/tldr: CONTRIBUTING.md

When in doubt, have a look at a few existing pages :).

## Directory structure

> The English pages directory is `pages`, under which are the platform directories. Language specific directories must follow the pattern `pages.<locale>`, where `<locale>` is a [POSIX Locale Name](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Names.html#Locale-Names) in the form of `<language>[_<country>]`, where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The English pages directory is called `pages`, under which the platform directories are present. Language-specific directories must follow the pattern `pages.<locale>`, where `<locale>` is a [POSIX Locale Name](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Names.html#Locale-Names) in the form of `<language>[_<country>]`, where:
```

- `<language>` is the shortest [ISO 639](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639) language code for the chosen language (see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-2_codes) for a complete list).
- `<country>` is the two-letter [ISO 3166-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1) country code for the chosen region (see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements) for a complete list).

> [!NOTE]
> > Do not put any page directly inside the English pages directory or language specific directories.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is already checked by our script so I don't think we need to mention it here.

> The `<country>` code is optional and should only be added when it there is a substancial difference between a language (`ll`) and its regional dialects (`ll_CC1`, `ll_CC2`, etc.). For example, both `fr_FR` and `fr_BE` should fall under the same `pages.fr` directory since there virtually is no difference in writing between standard French and Belgian French.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<country>` code is optional and should only be added when there is a substantial difference between a language (`ll`) and its regional dialects (`ll_CC1`, `ll_CC2`, etc.). For example, both `fr_FR` and `fr_BE` should fall under the same `pages.fr` directory since there virtually is no difference in writing between standard French and Belgian French.
```

### Platform directories

> The `pages` directory contain the platform directories, as well as the language-specific directories, if they have at least one page of that platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pages` directory and `pages.*` language-specific directories contain the platform directories, if they have at least one page of that platform.
```

> 1. If the command is available for **two or more** platforms, put it **under `common`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the command is available for **two or more** platforms, put it **under the `common` directory**.
```

> 2. If the command is **only** available for **one** platform, these are the directories followed by their right platform:
> - `android`: Android
> - `freebsd`: FreeBSD
> - `openbsd`: OpenBSD
> - `osx`: OSX/Mac OS/macOS (will be replaced by `macos`)
> - `linux`: any Linux distro
> - `netbsd`: NetBSD
> - `sunos`: SunOS
> - `windows`: Windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the command is **only** available for **one** platform, these are the available directories followed by their right platform:
  - `android`: Android
  - `freebsd`: FreeBSD
  - `openbsd`: OpenBSD
  - `osx`: OSX/Mac OS/macOS (will be replaced by `macos`)
  - `linux`: any Linux distro
  - `netbsd`: NetBSD
  - `sunos`: SunOS
  - `windows`: Windows
```
I would suggest making these as subpoints.

When in doubt, have a look at a few existing pages :).

## Directory structure

The English pages directory is `pages`, under which are the platform directories. Language specific directories must follow the pattern `pages.<locale>`, where `<locale>` is a [POSIX Locale Name](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Names.html#Locale-Names) in the form of `<language>[_<country>]`, where:

- `<language>` is the shortest [ISO 639](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639) language code for the chosen language (see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-2_codes) for a complete list).
- `<country>` is the two-letter [ISO 3166-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1) country code for the chosen region (see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements) for a complete list).

[!NOTE]
> Do not put any page directly inside the English pages directory or language specific directories.

> The `<country>` code is optional and should only be added when it is needed. In other words, only when there is a valid reason to distinguish between a language (`ll`) and its regional dialects (`ll_CC1`, `ll_CC2`, etc.). For example, both `fr_FR` and `fr_BE` should fall under the same `pages.fr` directory since there virtually is no difference in writing between standard French and Belgian French.

Reviewer 2: I think that we should avoid subjective language like "valid". Who decides what is valid and what is not? Maybe we could just omit this section. Afaik there has never been any confusion on which pages belong in which language directory. This is intuitively clear to most contributors.

Reviewer 2: Okay, but I think that "valid" is not an ideal choice of words. For example, swiss german differs in writing from standard german, both in choice of words and in the spelling of words. However, a case can be made for either including it in the pages.de directory or for creating a separate one. Saying that it would be invalid to create a separate directory is (in my opinion) invalidating swiss german's right to exist. 

Also, I disagree that there shouldn't be separate directories for fr and fr_BE.

Author: How about "only when three is a substancial difference between a language..."?

As for fr vs. fr_BE, I don't know if there is a huge difference or not. Like, the difference is just about a few not that common words or not? For example, there isn't a directory only for en_UK.

If we decide to split the dialects, we should replace this example.

Reviewer 2: > How about "only when three is a substancial difference between a language..."?

I think that this would be a great phrasing!

### Platform directories

The `pages` directory contain the platform directories, as well as the language-specific directories, if they have at least one page of that platform.

The platform directories and their respective pages that need to be put in it are:

- `android`: Android
- `freebsd`: FreeBSD
- `openbsd`: OpenBSD
- `osx`: OSX/Mac OS/macOS (will be replaced by `macos`)
- `linux`: any Linux distro
- `netbsd`: NetBSD
- `sunos`: SunOS
- `windows`: Windows

> - `common`: available for 2 or more platforms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `common`: available for two or more platforms
```

Author: This guide is not consistent on in words vs. the figure:
> It is acceptable for several pages to get translated in one pull request.
> While we suggest only two lines for the page description, it is acceptable to have more than two lines if it is necessary to add additional information (i.e. [`pacman`](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/pages/linux/pacman.md)).
> In our pages, we use placeholders defined as being tokens within curly brackets. For example, in `sleep {{5}}`, the user can change 5 to any number.
> 1. Try to keep pages at around 5 examples. Pages can be longer or shorter when appropriate but don't exceed the maximum of eight examples.
In what direction should we go?

Reviewer 2: basically all sources recommend to use the "written out" form for number up to ten or even twelve: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_numerals#Whether_or_not_digits_or_words_are_used

Reviewer 3: @gutjuri in a formal document, yes. Personally I would suggest that the numerical form is more readable.

Reviewer 2: I do not agree, however, I respect the democratic process in this case and will approve this PR as is 😃

> The platform directories and their respective pages that need to be put in it are:
> 
> - `android`: Android
> - `freebsd`: FreeBSD
> - `openbsd`: OpenBSD
> - `osx`: OSX/Mac OS/macOS (will be replaced by `macos`)
> - `linux`: any Linux distro
> - `netbsd`: NetBSD
> - `sunos`: SunOS
> - `windows`: Windows
> - `common`: available for 2 or more platforms

Author: ```suggestion
1. If the command is available for two or more platforms, put it **under `common`**
2. If the command is only available for one platform, these are the directories followed by their right platform:
- `android`: Android
- `freebsd`: FreeBSD
- `openbsd`: OpenBSD
- `osx`: OSX/Mac OS/macOS (will be replaced by `macos`)
- `linux`: any Linux distro
- `netbsd`: NetBSD
- `sunos`: SunOS
- `windows`: Windows
```

I think this is a bit better.
